While in public school, I took many standardized tests.
One thing stuck with me that I know find a credit to its authors. 
In word problems or stories that needed a generic character,
They frequently picked a non-White name for the characters.
I remember there being names like *Seiko*, *Carlos*, and *Hassan*.
As a white male in elementary school in the 90's, 
who saw him self represented in every form of media,
I said to myself "Why don't they just use normal names?" 

Fast forward past a bachelors degree and a transformative 3 years at a liberal Christian seminary, 
I've gained enough wisdom to *better* not *perfectly* see my privilege and how it works in my world.
At Seminary, I did anti-racism training; it did not go well.
I had the usual defensive response that is common among my kind. 
However It finally got to me after reading *A Different Mirror* by Takaki around 2012.
Since then I've tried to examine white male privilege in everyday life.

Fast forward to my third week at a new position.
"Here is your username."
The sign in sheet displayed:
Username: pPabloDiegoJoséFranciscodePaulaJuanNepomucenoMaríadelosRemediosCiprianodelaSantísimaTrinidadRuizyPicasso@work.com"
Password: *RandomSeriesOfCharacters*

He looked at it and said: "It was part of my hiring agreement that I could pick my own name."
To my teams credit, they did check with recruiting and recreated the accounts without protest, 
He was allowed to take his desired username ppicasso@work.com
Since then I've come to think about usernames quite a bit. 
The default when creating usernames is first initial + last name @work.com;
every IT guy in a void would pick that scheme for a companies computer infrastructure.
How could that not make sense, If you name is John doe, then your email is jdoe@work.com.
This is true in the majority of offices, 
however some make a point of doing something different, like more jumbled names or the ability to choose names.
And once a system of picking names is picked, it will most likely never be changed again. 
It is impractical.

IT is focused on the practical.
What gets the user back to work fastest? 
This is a key metric for IT, lost productivity.
In addition, IT change is slow.
Yes there are new technologies everyday,
but there are innumerable ways an untested service can break a delicately integrated and stable intranet.
IT is a money pit, we do not generate money, we keep money from disappearing, by throwing more money at problems.
It can be a nightmare depending on who the department answers to and their sense of you-get-what-you-pay-for.
Take this all into account and IT rarely provides any custom solutions,
we assemble components, put them together, and make sure the continue to work together.
This takes up so much of our time,
that we often do not have time to help with the little problems.
"Why does word do this?", "I need to buy a single software license for that one thing",
these problems are often never brought to IT if it is believed that the issue wont get an answer they want, they won't ask.
This all results in an industry that tries to find boxes that meet everyone's needs.
However not all needs fit in these boxes.
It is impractical and cost prohibitive to do it differently.
I won't argue the economics of it, I've never manged an IT budget and I hope I never will.

This however seems to violate a belief that some in IT profess and that which I adhere to:
"Technology works for people, not the other way around"
If it doesn't work for people, the technology should change.
This has been the drive for countless valuable in innovate designs in usability.
However an IT department is often not nearly as worried about your user experience as much as keeping the whole system working.
And rightly so. I don't see another way at least.

However certain aspects of core infrastructure design that originate since the development of enterprise networks, 
there are clearly innocent choices made that came from the a limited experience with people.
To generalize: People with names like Steve Jobs saw no reason to not use a First Name, last name schema.
Many systems require the presentation of a First and Last name, many do not.
Regardless, the reality of the situation, is that there is no reason a system could not be developed with one extra unique identifier,
that completely removes the need for first and last names at all, allowing people to pick what they want.
However, for the reasons listed above, no one is willing to make a change for such a cosmetic issue.

Is it cosmetic?
I'm not entirely sure,
what I do know is what people named Mary Sue Parsons-Cummings  do not like to have to pick one "last" and one "first" name.
People from other cultures bristle at this, folks with names like Hee Sop Choi, don't exactly know what to pick.
So the IT guy often just picks something or makes a best effort.
Often there is no way or effort to get a hold of the new hire before the username must be created.
If you do not have a username on day one, they new user can't do anything.
You have to have something.
So guys name Ryan Johnson will make a best effort choose somthing like mcummings or hchoi.

However it turns out that No one calls her or knows her only as Mary Cummings, as that as added after she married her partner.
And Hee Sop Choi would rather have used his taken name of Danny,
the name he has used since me moved here with his parents at the age of 4 and perhaps he would never want to be known as simply Hee Choi. 

These objections are taken and handled on a case by case basis.
However, you are often out luck, they are the boss.
If it is changed after the account is created, 
you are almost guaranteed to have account issues as you continue through out your employment.
Keep that in mind ladies and gentlemen when decided on how you change or don't change names.


There is rarely a large motivation in IT to mix things up.
IT is about providing reliable service cost savings.
To ask massive companies reform, would I image, be cost prohibitive.
I've spent a lot of my professional life making usernames and passwords,
and it reminded me of a demonstrable trend: 
If you have a non Anglo-American name,
especially east or south Asian names,
it will be messed up.

I'm still watching to see how things are done, 
and now I'm watching an onboarding session gone wrong.
"So we've given you the name "
"I refuse to type that for every login"
And the conversation went on until eventually we made username for him.
This man was the latest member of our IT Security team. 
We eventually allowed him to take his desired username ppicasso@work.com




I've had time to grow and reflectNow that I am task with finding names for a John Doe, I relfeect upon this and have made a syste where I use the equivalents of John and jane doe from other countries. 

So instead of John does we get Chan Tai man, Ashok kumar, and Fulano del tal. 

This provides us with several benefits:

_ It adds diversity that can be customized for the auience. In a software compnay with a large south asian population, I'll be sure to includ a few from india or pakistan.

- It gets IT guys thinking about names that are outsie the fn/ln paradigm. 

This one is rampant in IT, and I don't think it is intententional. IT guys, and I mean guys, often hold no higher education or a technical degree. Often times it is a professional degree or certification that comes from a ver narrow course of study. 

And very often these highschool grauate IT guys often had access to computers growing up. It isn't a stretch of the imagination to see that perhaps whites owned more computers than black and others people as a result of the econimic divide. Perhaps this is too much speculation

However I know that one can Say that TLDR most IT guys are white, nearly all IT guys are guys.


As such, the imperative of keep the computers running lead them to push everything to the side that gets in the way of upsetting the delectate balance of your companies IT infrastructure. 

So when it comes to making usernames they want a simple system to make a name for everbody. They pick the most obvious system:

First initial + last name = username

J{ohn) Doe becomes jdoe.
This is the default at most places, always exceptions of course.

But that last statement seems easy to brush off. But can it be so simply disposed of. I mean how often do people not have nammes that are fn last name (PS Most modern systems can easily work past this limitation, some however still only have two fields for names.)


So when I as an IT guy, who has untill this point, had very little experinece with Korean names, is force with a choice when presented with the name "Hee Sop Choi"

Several issues present themeselves:

- What is the obvious abbreviation? HSopchoi? hschoi, hee sop choi itself would fit.

But only when this gentleman starts do you learn that he goes by the name kevin. At ths point the accounts are created and there is no going back.

Or say you are Thai and named Horatio Chacovarnmokol, are you expected to use the horrendously large hchacovarmonkol everythime.

To which I've heard this issue brushed off by reccomending technology to cope with it rather than desing the systems around people.

Technology should always meet the needs of  people not the otherway arounnd, I reccomend a book called the Chinese Typewriter for more information on this subject.

In short I don' think tell someone to use 1password is preferable to simpying the username. 

I' not ure if I'm making too big of a deal about this. How much oes it suck to have your name butchered in systems or being stuck wiht a lousy one. Was there a dehumanizing aspect to having your name cut off part way through,? Is that traumatizing enough to be of concern? I hear many just okay wiht it, but I hear others very frustrated by it.


Hong Gil Dong 
