
I'm an IT guy and a technical writer.
When I say *IT guy* I mean *guy*.
When I worked at Amazon,
I remember a state of department meeting where they read off diversity stats.
The one stat that stuck with me was that *2%* of IT was female.

News flash, we need more women in tech.
Sure that is true, 
but it is almost said as a prayer to ward off actual pressure for change.
Let's also keep in mind that this is IT, not software development. 
They are different professions, while both know a lot about computers,
they've studied different parts of them. 
IT includes your helpdesk team, network administrators, Administration of SaaS Products. 
Software development, or programmers, make a lot of the things that IT use,
but they use IT technology to make it. 

However both have seemingly mundane struggles to overcome in dealing with technology that still follows patterns designed by white men.
In my opinion, good IT understands that technology meant to works for the people and not the other way around.
Technology must meet people where they live when possible.

In terms of Software Development, what most people imagine when you talk about the tech industry, 
the history of the bias is clear. Women, used to be hired as *Computers* to run calculations for various purposes, 
most often ballistic calculations. 
When the ancestors of the machine computer came along, 
the *computers* began to use them in their work. 
This meant that by the time of ENIAC and UNIVAC, 
women were filling out punch cards with equations to complete calculations.

Computers then became more complex,
they then became known as programmers.
By then, through the right sequence of codes, 
the computing machine could to do more complex things. 
Just as some people got their start programming their graphic calculator, 
these women began to find the work of programming to be an interesting challenge.
During this time, the men running the show, were mostly Math, Physics, or Engineering Professors.
These people worked in the theory and help to design the plans and architecture.
As time went on and became an industry instead of an experience.
Men began to find the work of programming interesting, and they were hired by the men who were running the show,
or so the tale goes.

IT is different.
IT is setting up and maintain computers.
In the final season of *Mad Men*, they have a computer installed in the office.
Dapper IBM men in black ties, white shirts, and black pants came to install and maintain the system. 
These men are our ancestors.
These guys come in to maintain the investments that IBM or Elect Totalisator made in leasing these beasts to companies.
Everything from installation, repair, access, and allocating computer *time*.
Perhaps that last one was the implement used to bludgeon women's in tech.

I think if one understands the history of tech, 
It becomes evident that IT has a whole different set of challenges to overcome.
Putting our diversity issues in the same basket as software development is not appropriate.

A side note about racial diversity,
as I understand it, that does mirror the Software development world.
Good diversity can be found in East and South Asian ethnicities; however it is hard to find black IT guys.
I've worked with many different folks in this industry and I'm proud of those diversity hiring practices.
I'm sure there is a ways to go on that, but I don't think the issue is as emergent as with the absence of women. 

So how on earth can computers and their overlords be sexist 

Company men who came in after the technology was licensed to private sector, the focus shifted from the  military and university worlds.
The required knowledge has changed and is distributed between roles more, but that is the fundamental work of IT.

And, without malice, I think IT has to acknowledge this struggle for gender equality must be distinct from that of the story of general *Tech*


they figured out that the electronic computer could do more than math,


Rear Admiral Grace Hooper then changed the game,


Electric Computer came along, it be came a tool that the *Co



Now I'm one of those tech types that lives in the bay area, I'm not a developer so I don't make Tesla money, I make used Chevy Volt money.


